# BLood-Bank-Management-system
The Blood Bank Management System is a web application developed to aid in the effective management of blood donations, requests, and inventory by the hospitals, donors, and the administration partes of the system. The system’s frontend is developed using HTML, CSS and JavaScript and the backend uses a Node.js + Express.js with MongoDB for information storage. The application has secured role based system for both users and admins. The donors are able to register, update their profiles and respond to urgent calls and the blood recipients are able to place blood requests. Admins have access to provided dashboards for real time inventory tracking and request verification, managing donor lists and leading in donation drives, ensuring timely support for critical cases. 

The system prioritized information access and ease of use with the application’s responsive design, intuitive menus, and readable font sizes catering to a wide age spectrum. It also has other functionalities such as donor lists, local hospitals and blood banks, emergency contacts. The system incorporates safety measures such as proper health information authentication and safe storage to ensure the risks of data breaches are mitigated. The system is scalable to allow for the future implementation of a mobile app, alerts by SMS or email, support for multiple languages, and even health wearables for instant emergency alerts. Through the system, donation data is streamlined and enabled to be interlinked.

